LET us see different types of loops, first loop that I will show you is while loop.
And here one is given then cout
hello.
Now here this loop will repeat as long as this condition is true.
All that I have given one so this'll be always true.
So it means this will enter into infinite loop.
Let us see this continuously displaying hello hello go on displaying hello. even I am unable to
scroll up so it's go on displaying
Hello.
This has entered into infinite loop so as this is always true.
So this is in finite loop.
See these many times it has displayed.
Hello I'm scrolling here on this window, so many times I had to stop this program forcibly because it
was not terminating.
It is in finite loop now instead of that I want to run it for some number of times like I will declare
some variable integer i
And that is assigned to zero.
No I want to say while.
I less than 10.
OK as long as I use less than 10.
It should display Hello.
Let us run and see
see more than 10 times.
It's going on repeating again it is infinite.
It's not stopping.
I should stop forcibly here by clicking here.
I have stopped it.
Why it is not stopping.
What is the reason.
See I value 0.
I is less than 10 yes always zero is less than 10.
Going on printing.
Hello.
So what I should do I should modify so that it reaches a 10.
So for that purpose I will write.
i Plus plus.
Yes now it will print hello for 10 times.
I start from zero.
I will stop at ten and it will continue till 9.
Let us run this
yeah.
No it has printed just hello 10 times.
So the point that we have learned here is whatever the condition is written here.
That must become false at some point otherwise it enters into infinite loop.
Debug this program and show you so for that I'll put break point here and I will run the program.
Now here you can see that value of i is double three two three four.
So that is some garbage number and it has dropped at this point I will press
F7 function F 7.
Now I is zero here if you can see this  i is zero.
And I is less than 10 so it will enter insidet and print hello then I plus plus it's not yet executed.
F7.
Now I became one and it has jumped on to this one and it is less than 10.
Press f7.
Now I pluss Plus I becomes two I is changing to two, then  I become three, i is four.
So you can check the value of I that is 4.
Then go on repeating it.
I am repeating it by pressing f7 function F 7 so I's 8 now.
And I is 9 and now I value is 9.
You can check here I value is 9 and it is the showing here in the watch window and then I became 10
and then this not less than 10.
So it will come up.
That's it.
So in this way with the help of debugger you can see every statement How it is executing.
So this is while loop I'll remove the break point delete break point same thing I can do it using do
while loop also.
I will remove this and say do and here I will  say i is less than ten and semi-colon and
also after hello let us give slash n enter a new line.
Now let us run the program and see.
Yes it is spending hello for 10 times. is a really 10 times? what I will do is before.
Hello.
I will print the value of i also and I'll give some space before.
Let us run it again.
Yes it is from zero to 9 so it is 10 times it is printing Hello.
So the same program can be written using the do while loop also.
Now let me show you for loop.
Same thing right.
Same thing i will write, for integer I assign 0 and I is less than 10 I plus plus
I have already decleared I there.
So I should remove i from here.
So inside the for loop only is declare, here I will say cout.
Then here I will say cout I then space hello and slash.
It's the same thing see inside for loop this declaration and initialization and the condition that we were
using in while and Increment and that we were using inside.
while and do while.
That all came in a single line because I is used as a counter so all the things related to a counter
are done in a single bracket.
So this is easy for reading and everything is at one place.
Let us run the program and see what happens.
Yeah is printing hello.
Hello from zero to nine so total 10 times it is printing Hello.
Let us put a break point and run the program, so now i will  go on pressing F 7.
So you can see that it is displaying one by one and I begin four and five six seven.
So it will not show these as seperate step.
It will show it as a single line only after printing hello it will go to this for loop line.
And in this it will increment the value and then check the condition then it will come inside now
the value of i is seven then eight then printed and then nine and printed and not ten.
It has stopped.
So when I became 10 and it had stopped.
So the same piece of code I have shown you using while loop and for loop and do while loop.
So it can be done using all three loops.
So try this one sample program you can try it on your computer.